When getting started with Ganache, you have two options.
You can use the Ganache user interface as shown here,
or the Ganache command line interface as shown here.
Both of these do the same thing,
and it's up to you to choose which one you like best.
Here, I'll show you a little bit about what to expect when you're first getting started.
First, to download the Ganache graphic user interface,
you can go to their main site.
It gives the option to install for a multiple operating systems.
You can click Download to get started with the installation process,
and once you've got it, you can open up the app to run your local blockchain.
Next, the Ganache CLI.
You can install the Ganache CLI using npm as shown on their GitHub page.
Go to your terminal and type npm install ganache-cli-g to begin the installation.
After it's installed, you can run
ganache-cli from your terminal to create your local blockchain.
This is something you'll keep running in a separate terminal window that logs
the information about the blockchain for you as you start making transactions.
I'll go back to the Ganache graphic interface
to give a quick overview of what this tool does.
Ganache provides you with 10 free accounts all
preloaded with a 100 Ether each for you to make transactions with.
For each of these accounts,
you'll see a transaction count and index and a key.
If you ever need the private key of an account, like you will,
to make transactions from your applications,
you can click here to view it.
You can use this mnemonic here as a seed phrase to connect your other tools to.
For example, in MetaMask,
if you restore an account with a seed phrase and use this,
you've just connected MetaMask to your local blockchain.
In this small bar here,
you can see the Current Block,
the Gas Price and Limit,
the Network ID, the RPC Server,
and the Mining Status.
Each time you make a new transaction,
you'll see this current block number go up.
Another important thing to note here is the RPC server.
If you ever want to connect to this blockchain from something like Remix,
you'll use this server as the connection URL. We'll be doing that later on.
Across the top, you'll see Accounts,
Blocks, Transactions, and Logs.
The Accounts tab is what we're on now.
Under Blocks, you'll see each of the blocks that
are created as you begin making transactions.
You can click on this for more details like the time it was mined and the blockhash.
Transactions is another view similar to the blocks but for each of the transactions.
As transactions come up,
you can click on them for more information.
Finally, there's the logs over here.
These logs are the data being registered on
the blockchain before being shown to you in the UI they provide.
On the top right, there's a search bar that allows you to
search by block or transaction hashes,
similar to Etherscan but for your own blockchain.
There's also a sneaky button here,
it actually took me awhile to notice.
You probably won't need to use this at first,
but it's good to know about in case you want to customize something.
Here, you can change the details about your blockchain.
Under Server, you can change things like the port number and network ID.
In Accounts and Keys,
you can change the number of accounts and Ether that each account has.
You can also change the mnemonic if you want.
The rest is all stuff you can check out,
but we won't be looking at it much in this lesson.
So that's a look at everything on the graphic interface.
Over on the CLI, it's basically
the same thing but without all the support of the user interface.
I'll be switching back and forth sometimes,
but I'll mostly be using the graphic interface anytime I
want to point something out specific that's happening on the blockchain.
If you're an advocate of CLI tools,
try figuring out what you'd like to view using the user interface,
then go to the Docs and find the command they provide to do that.
From there, you'll be set up to view anything you
like about your local blockchain from the terminal.
We'll be using these a lot coming up,
and you'll always be able to use these for
testing your DApps in the future if you'd like.